In this video we'll look at C++ is relational operators in addition to the quality operators.
C++ also has several other relational comparison operators.
These are greater than greater than or equal to less than and less than or equal to and in C plus plus
20 they'll be a really neat three way comparison operator this operator compares to expressions and
evaluates to zero if they're equal less than zero if the left hand side is greater than the right hand
side and greater than zero.
If the right hand side is greater than the left hand side like the equality operators these operators
are very intuitive easy to use and understand.
Let's see a few examples in code like.
I mean code like.
I'm in the Section 8 workspace and this is the relational operators project in this project.
I'm just using some really simple examples to test some of these relational operators.
As you can see I've got two numbers declared number one and number two.
This is where I'm going to read some miniatures into and I'm asking the user to enter into your separated
by space and I'm reading those two integers from the user.
Then what I'm doing in this output statement right here is supposed a user entered 10 and 20 here I'm
just saying 10 greater than I'm just explicitly printing out that greater than sine 20 and that I'm
evaluating whether one is greater than two and that's going to say true or false.
So it's going to do that for all four operators greater than greater than or equal to less than less
than or equal to.
And then we could try out a couple of examples with this with this program so let's let's run it.
And the center two integers.
OK so let's enter 10 and 20.
So you could see here 10 greater than 20 is faults 10 greater than or equal to 20 as faults 10 less
than 20 is true and 10 less than or equal to 20 is also true.
OK so now let's let's try some other ones.
Couple of other test cases here let's try 20 and 20.
In this case you can see that 20 is graded 20 is not greater than 20 20 is is greater than or equal
to 20 20 is not less than 20 and 20 is less equal to 20.
Just again just what I would expect.
So real simple example.
What I do now is I'll comment out those output statements that we just did here and I'll declare a couple
of constants here and I'll uncomment this piece of code and I'll walk you through it.
So in this case I'm declaring two constants lower and upper to be 10 and 20 and I'm asking the user
to enter an integer that's greater than lower.
So in this case I'm asking them to enter an integer that's greater than 10 and those is constant so
you can modify them here and and play around with this program yourself.
So in this case enter an integer that's greater than 10.
I'm reading that integer into the one that I'm comparing to see if that number is greater than the lower
limit which is 10 in this case that I'm doing the same thing.
I'm saying enter an integer That's less than or equal to the upper limit.
So let's run this.
And first thing you'll see is says and I mean get rid of that.
Let me read a statement at the beginning here and if we try that again here we go.
So an inch or two that's greater than 10.
So let's pick 12 and it says 12.
Greater than 10 is true.
That's what we expect.
Now it says entrant integer That's less than or equal to 20.
That's put in 12.
And it says 12.
Less than or equal to 20 is true.
OK so let's run this one more time with the different test case.
So enter an integer that's greater than 10 that's put in 8 this time.
And it says a greater than 10 is false.
Obviously I didn't do what I was told to do.
And here and here an integer That's less than or equal to 20 that's put in 25 and we can say 25 is less
than or equal to 20 is also false OK.
You can see where we're going with these operators once we get to control flow statements you'll have
all this knowledge under your belt and you'll really be able to read some really powerful programs that
solve problems.